The Bitcoin protocol is made up of a bunch of rules.
Sometimes, a rule of the Bitcoin protocol needs to be changed.
For example, how should miners be rewarded?
How large should a block be?
Decisions have been made on this already but that doesn't mean they can't be improved.
These are the types of questions that can affect how the entire network operates.
Bitcoin, like any software project, is always improving.
So updates like these will continue to happen as the software evolves.
In Bitcoin, this process of updating
the software starts with a Bitcoin Improvement Proposal.
Bitcoin Improvement Proposals are
technical documents used to issue changes to the Bitcoin Core Client.
We discussed this earlier in the program when we went over BIP 39,
which helped create deterministic wallets.
You can find this and other Bitcoin Improvement Proposals
at github.com/bitcoin/bips which we've linked below the video.
These proposals are written by
community members who believe they can improve the protocol.
They're sent out to the network and published publicly.
At this point, the proposal is only a suggestion for an improvement.
Before being implemented, the proposal needs to go through a voting process.
This vote is taken by the miners in the Bitcoin network.
If the proposal gets a majority vote from the miners, it'll be implemented.
This means the miners actually have control over
the implementation of updates to the network.
Miners are a good choice for this because they're
clearly invested in the improvement of the protocol.
Once a vote is taken,
the proposal is either accepted or denied.
If accepted, it's time to start implementing the proposed changes into the software.
This works and continues to drive improvements to
the Bitcoin protocol but there are some concerns.
For one, miners are important but they don't
always represent the best interests of the entire network.
This can be a problem.
For example, miners can vote for proposals that favor
themselves and turn down proposals that may hurt them.
If something could improve the network performance but lower miner fees,
it may get denied because the miners are concerned about the money they can earn.
It could be that this is the right move but it is a situation
where miners have to choose between personal incentives and progress.
The system works pretty well but,
we want to point this out because it is
somewhat of a concern for the network at this point.
Depending on how significant a change is to the network,
it can be really difficult to get everyone to agree on the right direction.
It's possible for some users to adopt the change and for others to deny it.
If this happens, the network splits into those who have adopted it and those who haven't.
These network splits are known as forks.
Coming up, we'll discuss the different types of forks that can happen.